1]Configure the Blynk App:
	1. Download the Blynk App from Google play store or App store.

	2. Create a new project in the Blynk app. Enter the project name and choose the 	device. In this IoT project, I have used NodeMCU, so I have selected NodeMCU.

	3. After that Blynk will send an Auth Token to the registered email id. The Auth Token 	will be required while programming the ESP8266.

2]Adding widgets in Blynk App
	
	Steps to add the button in Blynk App:
	Open the project in the Blynk App Click on the “+” icon on the top.
	elect the Button.
	Click on that button and select the output pin –> V1 & Mode –> Switch

	**Here I have used an active low Relay module, so to turn ON the relay we have to send 	“0” and “1” to turn OFF the relay.

	In a similar way create switches with V2, V3, V4 pins to control the second, third & 
	fourth relays

3]Program NodeMCU with Arduino IDE
	For this IoT based home automation project, I have used the Arduino IDE to program 	NodeMCU.

	First update the Preferences –> Aditional boards Manager URLs: 	https://dl.espressif.com/dl/package_esp32_index.json, 	http://arduino.esp8266.com/stable/package_esp8266com_index.json
	Then install the ESP8266 board from the Board manager 
	After that install the Blynk library

	Enter the following WiFi credential and Authentication token in the code:

	WiFi Name at “WiFi Name”
	WiFi Password at “WiFi Password”
	Auth Token sent by Blynk at “AUTH TOKEN“
	Then Goto Tools and select the board as “NodeMCU 1.0 ESP-12E” and the proper PORT 	in Arduino IDE.

	Then click on the upload button to program the NodeMCU board.
	After uploading the code, the blue LED connected with pin D0 should turn on as 	shown in the picture.

	If the wifi is not available, the blue LED will turn off. Then you can control the 	relay module with push buttons.

	If the internet comes back the NodeMCU will automatically connect with the WiFi and 	the blue LED will turn on.
4]Connect Home Appliances with Relay:-
	Now, connect 4 home appliances with relay module as per the above circuit.
	Please take proper safety precaution while working with high voltage.

NodeMCU ESP8266 Home Automation System is now ready.

Now, you can easily control the home appliances from the smartphone using Blynk App. And you can also monitor the real-time status of switches in the Blynk app.

You can also control the home appliances manually from the push buttons. even if there is no internet sill you can use the push buttons to control the home appliances.
I hope you like this Smart house IoT projects idea with the ESP8266 and Blynk app.

